# STP_Multiscale


## This repository contains the main functions and sample code for creating most figures within the paper ''MULTISCALE MOTION AND DEFORMATION OF BUMPS IN STOCHASTIC NEURAL FIELDS WITH DYNAMIC CONNECTIVITY'' with the abstract as follows: 
### The distinct timescales of synaptic plasticity and neural activity dynamics play an important role in the brain’s learning and memory systems. Activity-dependent plasticity reshapes neural circuit architecture, determining spontaneous and stimulus-encoding spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity. Neural activity bumps maintain short term memories of continuous parameter values, emerging in spatially-organized models with short range excitation and long-range inhibition. Previously, we demonstrated nonlinear Langevin equations derived using an interface method accurately describe the dynamics of bumps in continuum neural fields with separate excitatory/inhibitory populations. Here we extend this analysis to incorporate effects of short term plasticity that dynam- ically modifies connectivity described by an integral kernel. Linear stability analysis adapted to these piecewise smooth models with Heaviside firing rates further indicates how plasticity shapes bumps’ local dynamics. Facilitation (depression), which strengthens (weakens) synaptic connectivity originating from active neurons, tends to increase (decrease) stability of bumps when acting on excitatory synapses. The relationship is inverted when plasticity acts on inhibitory synapses. Multiscale approximations of the stochastic dynamics of bumps perturbed by weak noise reveal the plasticity variables evolve to slowly diffusing and blurred versions of their stationary profiles. Nonlinear Langevin equations associated with bump positions or interfaces coupled to slowly evolving projections of plasticity variables accurately describe how these smoothed synaptic efficacy profiles can tether or repel wandering bumps.

## Summary of files
### The main functions utilized can be found in the file ''Functions_STP_multiscale.'' Wherever possible variable names are chosen to reflect those within the paper. These function are written for the wizard-hat synaptic profiles chosen in the paper. If one wishes to change this or other conventions, then portions of these functions must be rewritten accordingly. 
### Examples using the functions and generating plots contained within the manuscript are presented within the notebook ''Examples.ipynb.'' The Examples notebook also contains several notes on the figures and particular sections of code. 
### txt files containing sample data for a variance plot are included. Note: ensure the path to these files is correct in the Examples notebook to generate the plot.
## Requirements
### All code was run using python 3.7. See the beginning of the Examples notebook for the specific packages utilized. Largely, NumPy and SciPy were utilized for calculations and matplotlib for plotting. tqdm was used to create progress bars and joblib for parallel computing. Note that tqdm and joblib are not necessary for the calculations themselves and can be removed from the code if one prefers. tqdm created nice progress bars and joblib aided in shortening the computation time for the 10,000 simulations needed for variance calculations. A user could use other methods if preferred.
### joblib requires the use of Python 3.7 or greater. More details on dependencies and installation can be found at https://joblib.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
### tqdm does not have dependencies as noted in its documnetation https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm

## Credits: 
### Harris, C.R., Millman, K.J., van der Walt, S.J. et al. Array programming with NumPy. Nature 585, 357–362 (2020). DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2.
### Pauli Virtanen, Ralf Gommers, Travis E. Oliphant, Matt Haberland, Tyler Reddy, David Cournapeau, Evgeni Burovski, Pearu Peterson, Warren Weckesser, Jonathan Bright, Stéfan J. van der Walt, Matthew Brett, Joshua Wilson, K. Jarrod Millman, Nikolay Mayorov, Andrew R. J. Nelson, Eric Jones, Robert Kern, Eric Larson, CJ Carey, İlhan Polat, Yu Feng, Eric W. Moore, Jake VanderPlas, Denis Laxalde, Josef Perktold, Robert Cimrman, Ian Henriksen, E.A. Quintero, Charles R Harris, Anne M. Archibald, Antônio H. Ribeiro, Fabian Pedregosa, Paul van Mulbregt, and SciPy 1.0 Contributors. (2020) SciPy 1.0: Fundamental Algorithms for Scientific Computing in Python. Nature Methods, 17(3), 261-272.
### da Costa-Luis, (2019). tqdm: A Fast, Extensible Progress Meter for Python and CLI. Journal of Open Source Software, 4(37), 1277, https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.01277
### Varoquax G., (2011), joblib, GitHub repository, https://github.com/joblib/joblib

## Acknowledgements: Thank you so very much to all those above for developing and maintaining the open source packages/functions that I have utilized within my projects. Additionally, thank you to the platypus for being the most magnificent monotreme. 
